Again, good morning everyone. Good morning everyone. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you, good morning everyone, rakhidellis, everyone for participating.
Again, we are doing today teaching, level practicing too, level teaching and the practices.
So, it's very wonderful to be again, together on this technology level and connected to us.
In the Buddha teaching always mentions the time and the space is just a mind.
In the teaching mentioned, when you have higher realization and the space and the times are very,
very relative.
Truly, these technologies are allowing us some really, some part of that statement.
So, we all can connect and see each other and then, and also convey our intention and thought to
each other.
It's just really wonderful to use these opportunities.
So, I thank you all of you for organizing, arranging and facilitating and also participating to
this, our very special practices.
Particularly, this time, this situation and these eras.
So, again, in order to begin these practices, I think always it's really good to do short
meditation.
Relax and calm and just let all thought and conceptions kind of in a way to let it dissolve.
It is all source. Where it comes from, let that send back and stay as ourself in a fresh, natural,
calm, peaceful status for few seconds.
And those are known as chamath meditation, vibhachana meditations, aukki meditation, mahamudra med
itations, madhima meditations, whatever technique.
We are using and let relax as those nature said, as we do.
So, please, just we do for about five minute silence, meditation on those meanings, whatever you do
.
Thank you again very much, everyone, for participation. Thank you. Saki, deles, aki, beno.
Thank you.
Seven-line prayer we do in Tibet and then some other lineage prayer we will do in English.
And again, with beautiful intention, thought, all the body chata and joy and devotion, we begin our
session.
Thank you.
Now we do the lineage prayers.
We start prayer to the lamas of the lineage.
And I think it depends with page 20 or different book ledges that we have.
And in this one is page 11.
Thank you.
Next one.
Thank you very much again for participating.
And everyone.
Thank you very much everyone.
And all of you thank you very much again.
This is one of again as I said earlier is one of the joyous moment in this life.
This is one of the joyous moment in this life.
Then there's maybe we don't see other things, other beings, rams, in that what the Buddha told.
All those six rams, really thinking of everyone,
may they free from all the suffering, the difficulty, troubles,
and bring them joy, peace, happiness, reality, and that nature,
and all that nightmare like karma, whatever they experience immediately pacify it
and have them all.
Really, the organ and the natural qualities,
reveal that, having those thoughts from the heart and the mind,
and then reflecting, starting the teaching,
reflecting the teaching of the contemplations, we use intelligence,
and then practice and meditate, those all known as practice and dharma.
So today, again, we are doing that, which is wonderful.
That's what I'm saying, really.
According to Buddhism, in the Buddha teaching,
there's nothing better and best to reflect the bodhicitta
and reflect the dharma in our heart,
and carry that as much as we can with our activity, benefit to all the beings.
So that can be those intention and thought.
Now, I will go to the topic, what we discussed.
What I'm going to discuss is a very famous prayer.
Why is it famous?
It is powerful.
It's powerful in timely practices, prayers,
of known as, commonly known as to Samsanya,
and the Buddha of the three times.
Prayer is a very powerful practices, isn't it?
And it's also powerful practices, it's timely practices.
What in the teaching says in the colophon, if you have this prayer,
what is the end of the colophon said?
The colophon.
(inaudible)
Pete, do you have the numbers?
Eight, one, oh, five.
According to this video, one, oh, five, yeah.
But I don't have that all colophon here, sorry.
But I'm sure you do, you have that colophon.
The prayer says, it was timely, timely thelma teaching,
which is a reward by famous thelm known as choyur deki nampas.
Choyur deki nampas.
With the audience, thelma teaching is a reward.
It's with the audience, with the ordinary audience,
the witness that we need to discover.
It's a really timely practices.
That means it's powerful practice of this thelma time.
(inaudible)
Thelma teachings are always timely teachings.
That's why there's so many great thelms came one after another
throughout the generations from around 11th century
until now, still continuing that great.
This great thelm, the one who is a reward, is one of the very famous thelm
known as choyur deki nampas, as I said, Ailey.
Ailey, and you all know, I think many of you know, choyur deki nampas.
He came around 19th century.
In the 19th century, great thelm.
Generally, in that 19th century, end of the 18th century,
in the 19th century, and the Tibetan Buddhism becomes once again
the golden era of the really Buddhism.
So many great master came.
Not just not so many great master came.
Those who came, they are so open-minded,
not restricted by the regulation of all these schools, different doctrines.
It's open the boundary of those.
All teachings are blended in perfectly.
In the very Buddhism, there is the milad, or majority in the Buddhism.
Practicing Buddhism, Buddha dharma.
But there is also different schools and this and that thing.
But in the 19th century, these great masters came,
and they completely, in a way, opened the door
of that restriction of the different schools,
known as the Rimi movement in Tibet,
and which means without any partialities,
without any boundaries of the different schools.
Who are those masters?
The great master, known as the great one of the great ones,
the great one is possibly chintze,
the great chintze that many of you know.
And the second is great kung fu.
Why they named the great great?
Because they are really great in every aspect.
Their knowledge, their realization, their humility, their devotion,
their respect and appreciation to all the teachings.
Not just their respect and appreciation to all the teachings,
but they received those teachings from different great masters and practices.
And they told those teachings to the others.
So this is the one with the really great era of the Rimi movement
or non-partial systems and great Buddhism.
So many great masters came, as I said.
Great chintze, great kung fu.
And then, this great tertung, choyo deki nungpa.
And the great master, muhan jangwe, muhan rumujis, and so on.
All those great masters came.
And among those to each other,
even though they are so highly enlightened beings
and so educated and know all the Buddha teachings and knowledge,
and all, but yet they are so respectful, so devoted to each other.
They become the student to each other, and they become the teacher to each other.
Not just the pertaining teacher and pertaining student.
Genuine, really, with devotion, commitment, and respect.
That's how these great masters are.
They really become as like golden light in the great Buddhism.
So among that, this choyo deki nungpa is one of the famous tertungs.
Famous tertungs.
He was reincarnation of the second son of the king to some deki,
Prince Murat Sembo, in the great Murat Sembo.
Prince Murat Sembo became the heart student of the Murat Sembo,
great master, Vamala Mathuram, and Achyashanta Rakulas.
And he practiced and meditated.
He became one of the great disciples of these great masters.
And he was also very highly educated.
At that time, studying in Sanskrit language,
he was translating books from different other languages into Tibetan,
known as the name of the translator of the divine son.
Divine is an honorary word for the kings.
So he was son of the tertung deki was son, and he was translating.
So divine, translator of divine son, or divine son, S-O, and son translator.
As he became the great, really practiced and realized being his heart son,
one of the heart son of the Murat Sembo,
he emanated so many great thetums, one after another, and great masters.
So this Churya Deki Nampa is one of the famous tertung,
and the emanation of the Lhasi Murat Sembo.
And then what?
Also, according to the teaching,
a great chinti was emanation of the conditional depth himself,
and as well as Vamala Mathuram's and Mejushiri's.
And the great kumbravas, emanation of the great oscillator, were chanas.
So many times in the teaching, you see in the history,
said that time the golden era of the Tibetan Buddhism
come because of all those, like in a way, founder of the Buddhism, reappeared.
Reappeared in the 19th century, to restrain him, to lighten him,
of the teaching, to secure the teachings of the Buddha and Gurbama Sembo.
Sembo. So this is what really is famous.
And this tertung, I mean, all of those tertung too,
great chinti is a tertung, great kumbrav is a tertung,
great of course Churya Deki Nampa is a tertung,
but their scholarly aspect is just immense.
And their realization, achievement in that one lifetime is immense.
That light is still shining to all, this really to all the practitioners
of Tibetan Buddhism, what they glorified and shine the golden light.
It really grows, still continues to grow.
So this is what this teaching.
And of course, the great chinti was always concerning so much
of the beings of these Indonesian times.
There's so many difficult times are coming,
and they have to protect how to benefit and how to help.
And it very well have difficult troubles and all that,
and how to protect the benefit.
He really, so many times, have you ever had the opportunity to read his books?
There's so many prayers, specifically related to everything,
or to change the direction of the degenerations.
That's those turbulence of the degenerations.
Really making so many times again.
This is what this great master.
And so, among that, this Churya Deki Nampa, they are my teachings.
And this has become the hard practice and important praise
to all those great masters, encouraging to everyone.
Encourage to everyone to practice it because it's so powerful,
so special in a timely practice of the degeneration time.
And therefore, I think again, if we do these practices,
you do this able to practice it every time.
Time is to some sannyas, which is only six lines, not long,
but with good intention, good thought.
Really pray to some sannyas.
Really it will benefit, it will help.
To ourselves, it will benefit to others.
It will help to all these turbulence of the degenerate times
kind of happening in these really times.
There are so many kind of unusual things happening in the world.
So I think it's really timely practices, and you can practice this.
Therefore, I encourage that everyone who participated to this session,
so everybody can practice at least one hundredth practice.
That means one hundredth at-practice is just one mala. It's not that big.
But if you can do more, many people will do even one mala every day.
Well, how long it takes? It takes maybe twelve minutes if you join.
Or twelve minutes, or fifteen minutes.
I don't really take longer than that.
After twenty-four hours, if we spend fifteen minutes to join
with both each other, with devotion, I think it really will make some good benefits
as explained in the teaching as we go through this.
So therefore, I'd like to encourage everyone if they can practice
with at least one hundredth, or maybe even every day, maybe ten times.
Ten times prayer, thinking about everyone.
And thinking of what is said in the teaching, prayers.
Really removing all those obstacles and then profiling all the wishes.
Wishes of the body together. Kindness, compassion, joy, peace, happiness.
Respect the appreciation to each other.
Remove all the suffering, the difficult troubles.
As in the teaching today, we can do that.
That will be really so wonderful. I'd like to encourage you all that.
And then you can dedicate that marriage to you.
So with this understanding, and now we go to these prayers.
And this prayer is, I'm going to explain it in two ways.
The first one is general, how to practice.
Generally, as general practices of the prayers.
Pray. Second, I'm going to explain as His Holiness the New Room will talk.
All transcribed as it is.
What is said as this prayer is explained,
taught by first grade chintze, that teaching which is received to His teacher.
So that means, teacher of His Holiness the New Room will say,
the New Room will say, teacher, teacher, taught this teaching to His Holiness the New Room.
Again, I understand what that means.
It means that this teaching we're explaining of this,
the two samsani prayer, is how His New Room will go.
Because His teacher taught them.
And how He received, how He got this teaching.
Because He received this teaching, that His teacher,
teacher received this teaching, but the first grade chintze.
The first grade chintze explaining the meaning of these two samsani prayers
to His students and to His students.
And as that heard from the teaching of His Holiness the New Room will say.
And then this is the New Room which is written down there.
So I hope that you understand that.
I will go over that again more.
So that means, His New Room will explain a calling instructions of the,
maybe let's say, a calling instruction of the first grade chintze.
That's it, first grade chintze.
Just say that, then I go over that.
Before that, I will tell generally how to pray this and go with this meaning,
this meaning of the word by words.
And now, as every good display, what is it here? Here.
And the page 105, according to this bullet,
but if you have these electronic copies, which is, then you already have that.
So you can do it. And the prayer for removing obstacles
and the fulfilling the wishes, that is the praise.
This is the praise.
Praise.
So now, how we do this praise?
That is, I'm talking is now a general way.
The general way of how we do with praise, how we do.
First, we have the beautiful intention.
Port, intention, such as loving kindness, compassion,
joy and appreciation. I already mentioned this.
And that, again, our whole practice is best upon both each other.
Love, compassion, and wisdom.
That is the foundation of our practices.
With that thought, we are going to do these practices
to benefit for all living beings, to everyone.
Really, that intention is strongly.
And also, same time, feel great joy and appreciation.
How wonderful, how beautiful that I have this opportunity
to do these practices and cultivate and both each other
and bring more joy and peace, peaceful state of mind in my own mind.
How wonderful, beautiful with that thought.
And with that thought, and then, do those lineage prayers
as we do every year of time.
And after that, right in front of our spaces,
we are going to see, visualize, Gaurabhema Samba.
And many of you already know Gaurabhema Samba.
Gaurabhema Samba is embodiment of all the Buddhas of three times.
And ten directions also in teaching said. Ten directions.
Buddhas of three times.
So that means, Gaurabhema Samba is representative of the Buddha of the past.
Gaurabhema Samba is the Buddha of the future.
Gaurabhema Samba is the Buddha of the now, present time.
Not just one Buddha, one Buddha. All the Buddhas.
All the Buddhas with power, compassion, loving kindness,
wisdom, activities, all combined in one single state
known as Gaurabhema Samba, the Buddha of the Samba.
That appeared right in front of our spaces.
As dancing under rainbow bodies, sitting on the laurels,
the poor bloom lotus of the thorns and petals,
red and red white here. So being close, very glowing.
Above that sun and moon dusk, above that Gaurabhema Samba is residing.
Magnificently as like sun.
One hundred thorns and suns all come together as one sun.
Like that power, that light, the glory, light in front of you.
And that sunlight is the light of love, compassion,
wisdom, and all that light, the beams of light of the loving kindness,
the compassion coming to us. And it was going to all the beams.
Purifying everyone's obstacles, disease, sicknesses,
difficulties, troubles, challenges, whatever they're going through.
And bring them peace, joy, happiness, confidence.
And just completely clear away all the karma.
Any entire universe transformed as pure and as a golden light stays.
Really strongly think that, make that connection heartening with confidence.
And then, I think my praise, may this is my praise,
completely glorify all the obstacles, disease, sicknesses.
Really, as in the teaching said, strongly mentioning that.
Strongly mentioning, as strongly activated that entire thought.
Then what will you say here? What do you say?
Guru Ramachet, brother of three times, as I have already said.
Guru Ramachet, that means precious teacher.
Why it's called precious teacher? Guru Ramachet is not his story.
Came one time ago and gone.
According to the teaching, according to all those great practitioners,
Guru Ramachet is a living teacher, living master.
And we practice meditate and pray to Guru Ramachet.
And the teaching said, really, it is living Buddha.
Like, come to you, see.
And those all great master in the Tibetan Buddhism.
Not just in the new masters or from the new master schools in the Tibetan Buddhism.
But all those great big masters, really, they received blessings in the teachings,
in the dreams, in the visions, or in the direct perceptions.
Guru Ramachet came in the teaching, those are mentioned in their own autobegaraphies.
Autobegaraphies. So he's a living Buddha.
And Guru Ramachet also said that.
Himself said, that is not something that I came and gone.
I will be always with you.
Whoever practice meditate and invoke me, I will be with you.
And I will come to you, as the child is one, the only child when he is crying,
that as soon as the mother heard, she will go and help to them.
Same way, I will help and support as to every living being.
Really, whoever called me.
And this is not just saying that, but it was all those great texts on the master.
Always, only father, only master you.
So this is what the Guru Ramachet is.
It's a living Buddha, right now.
And we have really practiced meditating, living master.
So precious teacher, one who guides and supports,
has been asked for all the time, throughout our time.
Good times, difficult times, and all the time.
And now, in the future, and in the next lives.
And so, this is the Guru Ramachet.
So then, the precious teacher, Guru Ramachet is the Tibetan word.
Guru is what's called the Sanskrit word, which is in Tibetan, essentially.
And the teacher, and Ramachet is precious.
It's a precious teacher, brother of the three times.
And Devachim is also the name of the Guru Ramachet.
But also, it means the great blessfulness.
Great Phillips, Lord of all accomplishments.
That means, when you pray to Guru Ramasambhava,
it will bring all the accomplishments, all the accomplishments,
and the blessings of our heart and mind, as well as all the beings.
And then, also it means here, here, great blessfulness.
And then, Raka, Raka, wrathful, mighty subdue of all the negatives,
negativities, and destroy of all the obstacles.
So, negativities, external negativities,
such as all the different time, and elements, and the situations,
and as well as all those are external-related.
And in negativities and difficulties, such as our sicknesses,
and our mental problems, the physical problems,
all those are really completely horrifying.
And then obstacles, tragedies, bad circumstances,
all that is completely, by practices, it will destroy that.
So, I pray that another trouble will might subdue with all negativities,
destroy of all the obstacles.
And then, I pray to you.
So, I pray from the deep of my heart with full devotion.
Please bless us, as well as all the living beings,
to remove our old obstacles.
And again, it says here, pacify out obstacles.
Out obstacles, in one personal level,
said out obstacles is physical troubles.
All the obstacles in the family members, or within the family members,
in a larger level to the countries, or whatever they say,
or the world, larger level.
In obstacles, such as obstacles of our health, our bodies, different things.
When a single obstacle is all, then, known as this mentally related,
different emotions.
So, all the obstacles are completely purified.
And then, bless us, that all our aspirations, our intentions, completely fulfilled.
So, that is like, so as we join this prayer, with these meanings,
you can join this also in an initiative.
We join and think that, really, we think of that as profile of all our obstacles,
and fulfilling all our weight, exactly as it is.
So, that is a more general way to explain of these prayers.
Prayers, and that is what really I am making them.
But then, more, the third is explained by His Holiness.
So, how we go with this, the story of all the obstacles.
So, that is the prayer.
And then, join this as I say, you can do seven times, ten times,
or at least one mala.
Mala, that was wonderful.
And thinking of everyone, okay?
So, that is generally to explain of these practices.
And now, I go with, specifically, how the great master, His Holiness,
Dunyurmadi, explains.
Mention this.
Again, he said, this is what, here, in His Holiness, I don't know if you have this copy there,
but I will try to go over these practices.
And this title of this teaching, what His Holiness says,
is that the ornament of the intention of the Lord's bone,
and the explanation of the wager word, wager word of the praise.
Wager is indestructible, word, W-O-R-D, words, wager words.
So, that means what?
Every translated word, maybe, lines, L-I-N-E, lines.
So, six lines.
It has six line prayers.
It is wager lines, or wager word.
Why is it used wager lines?
This teaching is, simultaneously arises, teachings, or practices of the Guru Pima Sambaba,
not composed by this great people.
So, that means, as this praise appeared from the heart and the verse in the mind of the Guru Pima
Sambaba,
in the form of the Talmati, that moment reflected, and Choyolungwa, this great ertung, reworked.
So, therefore, it is wager lines or the wager words.
And then, so this is what it means.
And that is, it's timely practices and very special practices of the day generates time
to purify all the obstacles and, and, profiling all the wishes.
And the next one is his own, which is making, what's called paying homages.
Homages.
And he said, the wager fulfilling jewel means the Guru Pima Sambaba.
When you, I remember you, it purify and clear away all the obstacles.
The wish fulfilling jewel, which moment you think it will purify all the, all the difficult
troubles.
To that Guru, to that teacher, I have to pray and respect.
Now, I will explain here, very briefly of this, the meaning of the wager line of the prayers.
I will explain.
And that is what the, the praise at the beginning of this.
Now, in this prayer, what is it? This is a six line praise.
To Jamsanji, Guru Rinpoche, as you already have that.
So here, that, this, this six line praise, the first three line, this explaining has,
has the outer meaning, inner meaning, and secret meanings in the teaching.
It has three meanings, each line is explaining that.
And how, how his work, Guru Rinpoche, this.
As I said earlier, he received this teaching, teaching from the teacher of his own Dune of himself.
His own Dune of Rinpoche has over 27 principal teachers.
Their home he received all the empowerment, transmissions,
and the instructions of the entire teaching of the, to be the Buddhism.
Really he received all those teachings, teachings.
So, among that, one of the very important, as like his root teacher,
one of the very principles, master's, known as, as, as,
and this is one of the very important master's, known as,
was in the teaching his own Dune of himself, and said that he was emanation of the, the Vedic Pani.
And he, this from this, his own, he received so many teachings, so many empowerment,
so many instructions, and particularly he received entirely, again, once again,
entirely teachings of the Rinpoche Tenzu.
The collective teachings of all the Thelma teachings by great control.
And many of you know that, I think, Rinpoche Tenzu teachings,
completely from this Junmi Gidong-wango.
And Junmi Gidong-wango, during that time,
his Holiness received that empowerment of the Rinpoche Tenzu.
What is this Junmi Gidong-wango told to his Holiness?
In the group, in the audience, he said, now, at the end, he said,
I give you all this teaching, particularly pointed to his own Dunyurum, which is,
you, well, I, among the, all the students of the great two master's,
such as referring to the, to the first control and the first change,
among all the students of the two great master's of the Magishri or the Yangwung,
the first change in the first control, I'm the only one who gave this Rinpoche Tenzu empowerment
five times.
I'm there. But now, you will give ten times. You will give this ten times.
And because this Rinpoche Tenzu is a collective teaching,
so all the Thema teachings that put together by great control,
by encouragement of the post-Chenze, he put that all together.
So he said that his teacher, Junmi Gidong-wango, said,
you will give this ten times because this Tenzu collective works of the old Thema teaching
is symbolized activity of these great two master's.
And I've been able to do five times of this empowerment teaching,
but you will do now ten times. And in his own Dunyurum himself, he said,
I never thought I will do that, that with that many I will do.
But his own Dunyurum, he said, is the end. He said that as he said,
I am able to do ten times. At the end of his tenth empowerment of this big ceremony,
he said, oh, because as he said that at that time I never thought I will do,
but now, when I'm looking back in my life, I did ten times.
So this is what really this great master's is, I mean, his root teacher.
And his root teacher in his own Dunyurum told me that when he passed with this Junmi Gidong-wango,
when he passed, his own Dunyurum went for the cremations or last step today.
And they cremated. And then five didn't go immediately.
It took a long time to burn, but the next day, after that, they looked inside the ashes.
After two days or thirty-third days, they looked in the ashes.
His ashes become this master, this Junmi Gidong.
Ashes become in the ashes, I mean, not ashes.
In the ashes, you see the stage of Gaurav Emma Samba.
So his bones, like melted and formed as the stage of Gaurav Emma Samba,
known as Devachimbom, the blessfulness, great blessfulness.
Really, he said that. So this is what this Junmi Gidong-wango.
So Junmi Gidong-wango told to his own Dunyurum-mochi,
that's why, firstly, Chinti explained the name of these prayers,
this meaning of these prayers.
So that is what his own Dunyurum-mochi transcribed him or wrote down.
As he remembers that.
So now, in that way, firstly, this line is what, again, as we read.
Firstly, Gaurav-mochi, Buddha of the Three Times.
This, according, I mean, in here, this explaining,
externally explaining is Amodha Buddha Three Jewels,
Buddha, Dhamma Sangha, Amodha Three Jewels,
externally explaining of the Buddha, explaining of the Buddha.
And so, and that means, again,
internally explaining of the,
inwardly explaining of the Amodha Three Roots, so what?
Three Jewels, Three Roots.
So externally is explaining, meaning of the Amodha Three Jewels is Buddha.
And inally is explaining of the, among the inner level, the Three Roots.
Well, again, I'm not doing this well.
So in the Buddha teaching, when we called, we need to take rafudges.
There's an object of three rafudges.
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, that's the general.
In inner level, it is representing three, that three jewels are three roots.
Guru, Deva, Dakinis, Dakinis, that.
And then, in the cigarette level, in the cigarette level, and it's, cigarette level is representing
the Dharmakayas.
Amodha Three Caias, Dharmakaya, Sambukaya, and Narmakayas.
Amodha Three Caias is representing of that three Caias.
So now that means what? This fourth line of this prayer is really the essence of the Buddha,
essence of the Lama, essence of the Dharmakaya.
Or meaning of the Dharmakaya, or Three Caias, Amodha Three Caias.
Now, how that explaining? In the teaching said, when he said here, Guru Mooji, Buddha of the Three
Times.
Buddha of the Three Times, as he said already here, praise.
That means, among the three jewels is the Buddha.
So Buddha is what? The Buddha is total enlightenment.
And this time, as in the prayer mentioned, Guru Mooji, this Buddha is not just one Buddha.
Buddha of the All Three Times, past Buddha, present Buddha, and future Buddha, all come together in
one central status, as Garpa Masambhala.
So Buddha, that.
And then inwardly this meaning, explaining of the Amodha Three Roots, is explaining of the Guru.
And that is also explaining here, here.
Guru Mooji, precious teacher, already explained, as explained.
It is, or as he said, it is the essence of the Guru.
And Guru is, of course, you know, that is what means Guru in Sanskrit.
Sanskrit, or the Tibet, the one is above, or above ones, or not underneath, is above, is higher
elevated.
Why? It's what is elevated. The realization levels.
Realization levels is elevated, not normal. They're not just regal of that.
Because realization is a very highly realized being, so all are highly.
And the realization of the scripture, realization of the true nature, therefore, it is very highly
elevated.
Highly, or it is above that. For that reason, and the Garpa Masambhala is,
that innerly represented all the embodiment of the Three Roots.
And then, the absolute level is representing of the Dharmakayas.
Dharmakaya Guru Mooji.
That absolute level, again, is representing the way is that Guru, where is that Buddha.
It's no other than our own, really, the mind, nature of the mind.
And our nature of the mind is, nature of the mind is Dharmakari, nature of the Three Caias.
So, among the Three Caias, this is, then, known as the, what's it called?
Known as, then, Dharmakaya status.
Dharmakaya state of the nature is then, of course, externally, in the Buddha teaching,
is mentioned, always, in the general Buddha teaching, in the Theravada teachings,
and as well as in the Mahayana teachings and the Vedayana teachings,
particularly in the Vedayana teachings, and what is known as the embodiment
of the great blissfulness, the blissfulness of the indestructible, great,
blissfulness, nature. That is really the Dharmakaya nature of our own mind,
which is residing right in our heart and mind.
So, therefore, this inwardly, what's it called?
Inwardly is representative of the absolute natures.
And now, again, I will go over this.
This fourth line is externally explaining of the meaning of the, among the three jewels, Buddha,
and then, also, in the inner level, this fourth line is explaining the meaning of the,
of the three, among the three roots, and the Guru.
And the secret level, it is explaining of the nature of our own mind
and our own nature of the mind has three different qualities.
Among that is explaining of the Dharmakaya.
What are those three different qualities?
Dharmakaya, Sambokaya, and then the Makaya.
So, among that three, this is, the first one is explaining of the Dharmakaya, natures, that.
And so, for that reason, and now, again, we do this, what's called,
as it was already.
And that fourth one, among the three jewels, is Buddha.
Among the three jewels is the first line explaining of the Buddha,
and the Buddha is Buddha of the three times.
So, that's already kind of mentioned here.
And the second one is representing, or the explaining of the, the lamas,
among the three roots.
And what are lamas, actually, in the teaching field,
in the, particularly in the Nyingma schools of the very Buddhism,
there's lamas of the three lineages.
And mind, mind, to mind transmission lineages,
Sambalic transmission lineages, and aurora transmission lineages.
Those are the lineage master of the three.
So, this Gaurabhama sambhava is representing all the lamas of the three lineages.
Gaurabhama sambhava is the embodiment of the mind transmission lineage lamas.
Gaurabhama sambhava is embodiment of the
Sambalic transmission lineages.
And Gaurabhama sambhava is representing all the lamas
of the aurora transmission lineages.
And this, again, mind to mind transmission lineages,
in the teaching field, said, "What are those?"
And so, that means, it's made from the Buddha, Sammada Buddha,
to all the Sambokaya Buddhas in light beings.
All the retinas of the Buddha, Sammada Buddha,
and where they transmitted, there is no transmitting the word
by the word, symbols, but mind to mind transmitting,
from the pervasive nature of the wisdom qualities.
Ah, through that transmitted all the teachings there.
Those are known as mind to mind transmission lineages.
And Gaurabhama sambhava is representing all those lamas
that want to send up the state.
And then, the Sambalic transmission lineage,
lamas of the Sambalic transmission lineage,
all those Sambokaya teachings.
Sambokaya, five Sathya, five Dayana Buddhas.
And with their retinas, how did they transmit the teachings?
They transmitted the teachings really, again, not by the words,
not spoken, but through the sign and the symbols.
Symbols, they transmitted.
So, that's the way.
But all that Sambokaya lamas, lineage masters,
are embodied by the Gaurabhama sambhava.
All that comes in one single state as Gaurabhama sambhava.
Then, from the Gaurabhama sambhava lineage,
lamas, from where it started.
According to teaching, it started from,
from Sathya Sambhava, sorry, Gaurabh Durgis.
From Gaurabh Durgis, all the way until now,
those great lineage masters are transmitting lineage teaching
through the language of the words.
But however, again, even though they transmit the lineage teaching like words,
through the word, already transmitting,
but it contains the mind transmission lineage teaching
and sambole transmission lineage.
So, other transmission lineage is, in a way,
conversant teaching of the old lineage,
with it, atasped. And Gaurabhama sambhava represents all that teaches.
That is what Gaurabhama sambhava is, in Bodhima to all lamas,
lamas of the mind to mind, and sambole and orals.
And then Gaurabhama sambhava represents of this dharmakaya nature.
Our dharmakaya nature of the mind
is the absolute Gaurabhama sambhava.
So, Gaurabhama sambhava is indestructible nature within our heart and mind.
So, therefore, again, in a secret level,
it represents our own nature of the mind,
and which is dharmakaya nature, dharmakaya nature.
So, that is the really first line of these practices.
And the second one is, and so now, so with that.
So, when we visualize Gaurabhama sambhava right in front of our skies,
as in Bodhima to all Buddhas, and all the Gurus,
and as well as also dharmakaya level,
and our nature of the mind and nature of the Gaurabhama sambhava
is the same state as there is no divisions.
With that thought, really strongly kind of think of this,
this, with that realization, every phrase.
The next one is the second line.
The second line is what?
In the teaching said here,
give a cimbal, lord with all accomplishment and great blissfulness.
This has, again, three different levels, three meanings.
Externally, this means among the three jewels, the dharma.
This second line is representing dharma.
At any level, this second line is representing of the yedams, or the deities.
And the third level, it is representing among the three kyas, sambhokaya.
So now, this is, again, what is this line?
Firstly is dharma, or externally it is dharma.
It is representing dharma among the three jewels.
Second line is representing,
or second meaning is represented as among the three roots, yedams.
And the second level, this third line, explaining of the sambhokaya,
nature, among the three kyas.
That is what we see this.
And again, how that represent?
And here, his own union said,
how that first way is represented of the dharma.
We have said, because we follow the teaching of what means dharma, actually.
Dharma means one who helps, or dharma will assure us to achieve
the good qualities or goodness of this worldly level and the ultimate levels.
That is really dharma.
And what is worldly level goodness?
Joy, peace, happiness, openness, good communication, good relationships.
Good relationships.
And because of that, there is also less disease and longevity,
and all those, and the performance of the good things.
When our heart and mind are in quite good state,
we also follow the good things, what we want to do.
How do we do too many struggling things?
And then, those are really about the good qualities of the world
and happy lives.
And what is the ultimate benefit of the by the dharma?
We find our very fundamental cause of the difficulty troubles,
which is the negative emotions, and those are known as ignorance,
or attachments, anger, jealous, head and toes.
Those are all purified.
And those are also known as in the Buddha teaching,
removing the obscurations, purified.
How we can purify or remove the obscurations?
By the dharma, power of dharma, practice dharma,
not any other means we can do.
So therefore, we follow the instructions of the teaching
as Gaurab and Masambha taught,
and with the presence of Gaurab and Masambha right in front of our skies,
and we do that, really, it will perform good things in this life,
and as well as the ultimate benefits,
realizations in moving to the path.
But for that reason, Gaurab and Masambha is embodiment of the dharma.
So this second line is explaining of the meaning of the dharma.
And then, second level, second meaning of this,
this word is explaining of the, among the three roots.
Among the three roots is explaining of the jedams.
What is the jedams?
In the teaching, Aupren said that you heard,
said jedam is the root of accomplishment,
all the fulfillments, all the fulfillments.
Fulfillments of the ultimate fulfillment is enlightenment.
Ultimate fulfillment is transforming this phenomena,
conception level into the pure land.
Ultimate fulfillment of the accomplishment of following our physical,
our own physical, transforming as divine body or the Buddha body,
or the entire universe transforming to the mandala of the Buddhas.
That is ultimate accomplishment.
And then temporary accomplishment is what in the teachings,
in the teachings said that if you really meditate, the practice is good.
And then also your mind become more clear and calm, calm, peaceful.
Because of that, we can get also more knowledge, more wisdom.
We can see things that we didn't see before.
And through the power of meditation, and those who are,
people can walk on the sky or go through the wind,
or through the different meditation practices,
you can discover in different kind of like, trails.
Those are in the teaching making temporary benefits, temporary benefits.
And then also you become more youthful, youthful.
And vitality grows.
And mind, those are temporary benefits.
So all those are accomplished by the practice of them.
Therefore, representing of the Yadam deities,
in the body of all the Yadam deities or representing them.
And the next one is the ultimate level of this what the Yadama sambha is.
Then the sambhokai.
Again, what is sambhokai?
It is our inner nature of the mind.
What is in the teaching said?
In the zokti teaching, for example,
the emptiness aspect of the nature of the mind is dharmakaya.
Clarity, the vitality aspect of the mind is sambhokaya.
So this is the, again, to disconnect with the Gaurabhema sambhava,
we are connecting to the thirikaya immediately.
Thirikaya in that way.
We connected to the dharmakaya, already mentioned earlier, first line.
And now we are connecting to the sambhokaya.
And the sambhokaya is what?
In Sanskrit word sambhokaya, in English it is translated as enjoyment body.
The body of enjoyment, or sometimes it is translated as the body of luxuries.
Luxuries.
What that means?
Because this mind actually is the most richest.
We discover the mind.
The nature of the mind, it brings all the abundance, the good things,
that what really we imagine.
There's nothing more rich than our own nature of the mind.
Our intelligence, our wisdom, our loving kindness, our compassion.
All that is arising from our mind, or if I use the word,
from the emptiness of dharmakaya mind.
So it is the sambhokaya is the richness of the dharmakaya.
The dharmakaya mind, everything is arising from this.
In Buddhism, and particularly, yeah in Buddhism,
and particularly in Mahayana, in Vaidya, in Ati, all is a mind.
Everything is displayed mind.
The power of the mind has no limitations.
Every richness is arising from the mind.
That is what's called open the treasure of the sky of the mind.
It's all.
And that, for example, when we go to the dream, when we go to sleep,
when we're sleeping, where are all our dreams coming? All dreams.
And of course we don't want bad dreams, but good dreams if we happen.
Where are that good dreams coming?
It's coming from our mind.
But when we change our mind in more refined, purified,
all the obscurations of those negative or dualities,
our mind becomes more clear, brilliant, natural, normal, regular ways.
Really then, reflection of the mind will be totally different.
For example, many great masters often say that they see this universe as pure land.
Where that pure land came from?
It came because they purified it.
The duality of the conceptions.
When the duality of the conceptions, these ways of the duality of the conceptions,
when purified, then we can reveal the richness of the mind,
the nature of the mind, and that reflectings.
It's all like a similar image.
So this sampagaya, that is known as luxurious poems.
And the sampagaya is always how that is, always in the blessings.
There is no suffering or difficulties.
The luxurious, the luxurious of the blessings, the luxurious of all the environments,
the luxurious of the necessities, everything is in luxurious status.
And the luxurious of the poems, for those reasons, what in the teachings said.
Sampagaya had 32 major marks and 80 minor marks. All that is, is in that luxurious status.
Poems, usages, place to stay, environment, everything is in enlightened status.
That is called sampagaya, in great blissfulness status.
So that is, is that, at that time, and in his honor you said here,
without from the moving, without changing the situation of the, from the dharmakaya,
that every environment of the samsara, nirvana, are become the great medal of the great bliss
fulness
and the luxurious status. For that is what is known as great blissfulness,
the great blissfulness, master of great blissfulness.
So that is the second, second, second meaning.
And now we go to the third meaning.
Third meaning is, third meaning is, third, I mean third line.
Third major line explain is, and but he is explaining in here,
pray the wrathful mighty subdual of all the negativities,
destroy of all the obstacles. That is third, third major lines.
That is third major lines. So now what this third line explaining,
again same systems. First of the outer inner and sacred meanings.
The first outer meaning of this explaining of the, among the three jewels,
among the three jewels, Buddha Dharma Sangha is explaining of the Sanghas.
And then second meaning or the sacred meaning of this among the three root,
it is explaining of the among three root what?
Guru, Deva and Dakini. And of course many of you know that.
What that means three root in the teachings is root.
Root of all the blessings is guru.
Root of all accomplishment is yadams.
Root of all the fulfillment activities are Dakini and Dharmakayas.
So root, root is again R-O-O-C.
Root of that is root of the all the blessings is guru.
Root of all accomplishment is yadams.
Root of all fulfillment or activity is a Dakini and Dharmapalas.
So those are the three roots.
And then the secret level among the three Gayas.
And the first is Dharmakaya.
Second is Sambokaya.
And third is Namakayas. Namakayas.
So among that. So this third line explaining all that third one.
And Sangha, Dharmapala, Dakini and Dharmapala and Namakayas also explaining.
Again we go as we went.
And again Sangha.
Sangha is of course three jewels.
Among the three jewels is the third one.
Sangha is a Sanskrit word. And the third one is translated by the most great masters.
Sangha is Gendun. G-S-L-A-S-G, J-O-D-E-D-U-N, Gendun.
So what that means the Gendun?
G-S-L-A-S-G is a virtues. And then Dhendun is devoted.
Devoted to the virtues.
That is Sanghas.
Sanghas.
So now this
So how we can put it?
How this third line representing of the Sanghas?
Again by practicing of the Gurba and Masambhava,
it will directing our mind to the virtues.
It will connect our mind to the virtues.
What is virtues actually?
What is negative and what is virtues?
Virtues is mind, negative and virtues is mind, reality.
And what is virtues is love and kindness, compassion, bodhicata.
And that is really virtues.
Where they come from? Prominent.
What is unvirtues?
Anger, attachment, ignorance.
Where they come from? From the mind. Again.
So by practice of the Gurba and Masambhava,
it will help us to turn our mind to the virtues
and purify negativities.
And what that means is clean way,
ignorance, anger, attachment.
Together with this, such as jealous, heady thoughts.
At the same time, it is increasing our wisdom,
knowledge, understanding.
So this is therefore, Gurba and Masambhava,
embodiment of all the Sangha members.
It will bring the authentic quality of the true Sanghas,
respect and appreciation.
When we have the love, compassion and wisdom,
respect and appreciation all comes, very beautiful.
At the same time, it will also bring courage, commitment, patience.
Those all good things really come, abundance.
And that will assure, help us to remain ourselves in the path
to get enlightened.
So therefore, Gurba and Masambhava is embodiment of all the Sangha members.
And here, he is on the new music.
Gurba and Masambhava is the source of all the dharmas.
Gurba and Masambhava is on the crown jewel of the Sangha members.
Gurba and Masambhava is lord of all the great goodness.
That is how it is.
Then, this representation of the second one,
it is the representation of all the accomplishments, among the three roots.
Second meaning is the representation of the Dakini's and the dharmapalas.
What is really the activity of the Dakini's?
Generally, the root of the actions in the teaching said.
What are the actions? Generally.
The action is to benefit into the other beings, to benefit one's own self
and benefit into others.
That is the actions of the Dakini's and as well as the dharmapalas.
Here, he is on the dharmapalas, and among all those actions,
to purify the obstacles, negative forces, or destroy the negative, which is the best activity.
And here, what is the teaching said?
Destroy all the obstacles.
So, destroying the obstacles is the best activity.
What are the obstacles?
Also, these obstacles can be translated as demons.
So, what are the obstacles or the demons?
In the Buddha teaching, there are four major demons.
What are those four demons?
Demons of the emotions, demons of the aggregates,
demons of the distractions, and demons of the death.
So, those are the four major demons.
And demons of the emotions.
What are those demons?
Demons, emotions are, such as again, same thing in another gracious teacher, Buddha, explaining.
Five poisons.
Five poisons are the demons.
What are those five poisons?
Of course, many of you know already, but few of you, but you don't.
Five poisons is metaphor.
Ignorance, attachment, anger, arrogance, and jealous.
Those are five poisons.
Among that, five poisons which are on the front.
People who take the front row, attachment, anger, jealous, and arrogance.
Those are playing on the front row.
What does that mean?
Because ignorance is hiding.
Ignorance, we don't really see. We can't see it in a way invisible.
But ignorance is the root of all the four poisons.
Attachment is best on the ignorance.
Anger is best upon the ignorance.
Arrogance is best upon the ignorance.
Jealous is best upon the ignorance.
But we don't notice.
It is on the front, the floor.
So therefore, invisible.
The behind, what sometimes they say.
Silence, real, runs deeper.
It's kind of silence.
But it is fundamental.
Those are the demons, emotions.
And then grasping, clinging.
Clinging.
There is good grasping, and good cling is in a way.
The ultimate level, that is for temporary, there is good grasping and good clingings.
The ultimate level in the Buddha teaching is that any grasping is negative or emotional.
But for time being, good grasping is good.
What are those? Such as loving kindness, compassion, bodhicitta,
walking for growing, developing bodhicitta.
Take the examples of the Buddha and bodhisattvas.
Take the examples and follow their footsteps with the determination,
courage and commitment.
That will help us to make strong so that we can eliminate it,
even the good graspings or good clingings.
But for time being, this demon, the gross demon, is all this emotional demons.
This is called emotions, bad emotions.
Demon of the bad emotions.
So that we can eliminate that.
That is the best activities of the Dakinis and the Dharmapalas.
The second one is, when you have that demon of the emotions,
then we grasp to our aggregates, our physical forms.
What is such a word? Ego-clinging. All those are then become demons.
So destroying that, eliminating that, walking for that.
And then, next one is, when you got again something a little bit good things.
When we have this negative emotion of the demons,
then the third one is demon of the destructions.
That is something that may be appealing to us,
but yet is disturbing and is obstacles.
So those are called demon of the destructions.
Demon of the destructions is more disturbance,
particularly for those even good practitioners in the teaching field.
These were big obstacles.
So just eliminated that.
And then the fourth one, demon of the death.
Demon of death is again, when we have the grasping and clinging
with this physical, with demon of emotions,
then the body will attach it to this.
So that means the demon of the death is interrupting
our continuing journey to the practice of meditation.
Continuation.
So, kind of removing all those obstacles is known as
the performance of the activities.
And then activity, what are the other activities in the teaching field?
Those are the four different activities.
Passifying activities.
And the increase activities.
Subjugating activities.
As well as magnetizing activities.
All those are known as the obstacles.
And the next one is, and then when you have that,
what is said, when you destroy it,
when you destroy or eliminate the four demons in his or her,
then you will emanate three enemies.
Three enemies.
And those three enemies, externally,
it is all the obstacles of the duality conceptions,
externally, or the external duality conceptions.
And then, innerly, all the grasping, clingy particles of that.
And then, in the cigarette level,
the enemy of the neurotic, or clingy that,
is all eliminated by the realizations.
And then you are completely actualizing of the great activities,
of those four activities.
And so that is about the inner meaning of this,
the three root is represented by the dakini and the dharmapalas.
So the dharmapalas is the embodiment of the dharmapala and the dakinis.
And then in cigarette level,
then the dharmapalas represented by the three kayas of the narmakayas.
And again, the narmakaya is the display of the dharmakaya or the sambokaya.
And that is known as narmakaya.
What is narmakaya?
And this is the Sanskrit word,
again, if we translate it into English,
is emanations.
So emanation forms, emanation.
So what is emanation?
This emanation is the emanation of the sambokaya.
And what is sambokaya?
The sambokaya is the embodiment of the blessfulness and the worship.
Blessfulness, worship and compassion, that is sambokaya.
And that emanation, the emanation is also now same thing,
emanation of the loving kindness, compassion and worship,
outreaching to benefit all living beings.
So that is the general meaning of the narmakaya.
In our mind level, what is narmakaya of the nature of the mind?
Then again, a simple way to explain.
It's our love, our kindness, compassion,
toward arising and benefiting and helping to the other beings as much as we can.
According to our capabilities, according to the readiness of others,
if you help to benefit in that, that is, that is the narmakaya call it is,
that is unceasing call it, that arising from the sambokaya
or the darmakaya and the benefit to the others.
That is the sambokaya meaning, or the narmakaya meaning.
So that is in there.
So that means, Gurbamma sambhava is embodiment, embodiment of the three jewels,
embodiment of the three roots, embodiment of the three kayas.
And then what is Gurbamma sambhava?
So Gurbamma sambhava is Buddha that who is embodiment of four kayas and five worship.
That is.
So then when we pray this,
when we do this prayer to Gurbamma sambhava,
so we will be praising to Gurbamma sambhava,
all the call it, all the realizations, all the achievements,
and then we finally asking to, to fulfill all these wishes,
the one after another, that explaining, and teaching says.
So then I will go tomorrow, this rest, and I will go tomorrow.
And, and then together with I'm going to go, go over the prayers of the Ishin Sodya's prayer,
which is written by very famous, again, famous great master, Pippin Karmapas.
Of course, all the Karmapas are great masters throughout his stories.
But this Pippin Karmapas is also very famous great Karmapa,
and he was also one of the great thetums.
It came also same time of the post-anchancy,
post-control, and the Choyal Dunga.
And he was disciples of the post-anchancy and the post-controls.
So this was his teaching.
I will go over that too tomorrow.
But this again, this to some sambhava prayer, among that,
this first one, what we're discussing today here,
here is the to some sambhava prayer, as I said.
It is really so powerful, powerful practices about this time.
And then also, as I told the truth, this time,
the year is changing, kind of, it's come to now,
end of the year 2021, and the beginning of the year 2002.
So in this junction, junction, we do some prayers
and connect to the work of the Sambhava, and with the prayers of the to some sanya,
I think it's really very beneficial to every level, to ourselves,
to all the beings, to the world peace, and to dispel
all the difficulty, troubles that everybody is going.
Generally, in the samsara, there is always some troubles.
Always there is trouble, and there is nothing unusual there.
But however, at this time, it looks like more than what we saw in our lifetime,
more kind of things like that.
It's not just one, it is happening globally, kind of, really happening.
So I think what we can, there is so many people, those powerful ones,
doing so many good things to prevent the two kinds of, ease the situation.
But from our side, at least we do the prayer,
and really cultivate both each other, and pray to Gurbam Sambhava.
And then Gurbam Sambhava is also known as the Buddha of the Degeneration.
Among the old Buddhas, Gurbam Sambhava is the Buddha of the Degeneration time,
and it's so powerful, swept.
Among the old female Buddhas, Tara is the swept, powerful Buddha,
all the time action Buddha.
So there is always the teaching said that pray to Gurbam Sambhava,
and pray to Tara, and then to the Charyasas is always really good.
With those thoughts, we do some practices, and I think it's wonderful.
And again, now we do just this Tisav Sahni prayer,
only maybe three, maybe, yeah, we do this, I think you have the Tisav Sahni prayer in English,
we do first three times, or four times in a little bit,
and then three times in English, that makes seven times of the Tisav Sahni prayer that we can do.
We just feel the strong presence of the Gurbam Sambhava,
and all the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas are lineage masters,
and the Gurbam Sambhava is also not different from the Buddha Shakyamuni.
And so all the Buddhas were three times, as we explained,
so really, as we went through, so feel that presence as blessings of the Gurbam Sambhava,
and then Nithyan.
[Singing]